there will be bank failures you didn't
hear that just from me Jerome Powell
himself said that and we're going to
talk about it today you came here for
the truth so let me unveil that for you
today we are going to look at what's
going on with these bank failures I'm
going to connect that in with everything
that you need to know so that you can
make the best decisions to be a better
investor to manage your retirement
account whatever the case may be I'm not
going to waste any more time let's begin
if you look at this article here it's
going to cover what Powell had said and
I found it to be very interesting there
will be bank failures that is an actual
quote I didn't just make that up I
didn't just put in the title to get your
clicks caused by commercial real estate
losses something that I have been
talking about on this channel for many
years and now we can see that it's
making its way all the way up to the top
of the financial system Powell said that
the banks are in trouble with falling
office space and Retail assets are not
the big Banks which are designated as
systemically important in the aftermath
of the 2008 financial crisis that
episode resulted in a taxpayer bailout
of the financial sector don't worry
though this time is is different I tried
to say it without laughing this is a
problem we'll be working on for years
more I'm sure there will be bank
failures it's not a first order issue
for any of the very large Banks it's
more smaller and mediumsized banks that
have these issues we're working with
them we're getting through it I think
it's manageable is the word I would use
and that isn't it's so interesting for
people who have been on this channel for
a while manageable you remember I've
used that word several times the debt 30
trillion 31 trillion 30 they keep going
it's manageable that word is of course
nothing but propaganda you see they're
suggesting that it's manageable because
it's the small and mediumsized Banks
just because they're not systemically
important well then it's no big deal but
of course we know that that is actually
not the case percentage wise if you're
not aware already more than half of the
you know loans that are going out to the
commercial real estate are coming from
these so-called small and medium Banks
just because they don't have all the
people's deposits or just because they
don't have the big JP Morgan on the
outside of it doesn't mean that they're
not tied into everything you got to
realize that svb nobody knew who it was
until it failed you realize this that's
the trouble so now we have pow coming in
what what are the like what's the data
show me the charts show me the diagrams
well I give that to you here on this
channel I give you everything that's
where I differ from a lot of others it's
kind of a trust me don't worry just
trust no no no not here on this channel
everything's there in front of you and
sourced I'm not just reading off of some
page age and then you just got to look
up my face the whole time let's look at
the data together hundreds of US Banks
may go bust as CR commercial real estate
decays nbe study shows the significant
impact on the financial institutions
looking at this this is the percentage
of CRA defaults it's getting worse and
worse over time okay we're seeing this
all
throughout um you know what worries me
the most is not necessarily yeah you
know Bank fail here Bank fail
it it does happen Banks do fail okay
companies fail all the time whether it's
a bank whether you know it's just some
brick and mortar store they do fail
however we've put so much trust into
them that's one problem but let me tell
you the other problem is something
called fractional Reserve lending when
we have a fractional Reserve monetary
system one failure could then Domino all
the rest you see that's the problem if
you had a small business bu you had a
bakery and your bakery failed okay
that's a problem for you it's a problem
for your family the people who were
supplying you all your goods and of
course if you had any debt whoever was
lending to you but when there is a
systemic problem like we're seeing today
that's a bigger issue because it
involves the fractional Reserve
lending this is a big issue and it's of
course not being covered to the degree
that it should you probably asked
yourself what's the real estate exposure
commercial real estate exposure of the
largest US Banks total loans by Bank
this is the proportion of commercial
real estate loans so in the case of JP
Morgan total Pi would be 1.4 trillion
and
12.6% of that is the commercial real
estate still significant Bank of
America's on there City group is on
there and then we move all down the list
and by the way as they point out bottom
left corner you could see it New York
Community Bank if you haven't been on
this channel for a while I covered this
recently now is the time to hit that
thumbs up button when you do so you are
then more likely to be notified of this
I track every single element of the
financial system to a degree you just
can't find anywhere else in fact I've
been the most accurate analyst since
2020 documented here on this channel I'm
not saying that as a pat on the back I
am wholeheartedly worried about what I
have said because it has been completely
in tune with everything that's happened
and that is a big concern for not just
me but the people around me okay due to
its high concentration of commercial
real estate loans moodies recently
downgraded New York Community Banks
credit rating to junk status why is that
a concern when they get downgraded to
junk a lot of funds dump it and so it
creates a cascading effect so watch out
for that smaller Banks pushed into
commercial real estate you can see the
percentage of
lending looking at it all these
different types here that is in fact the
case okay so when we look at and my
goodness commercial mortgage back
Securities don't even get me started but
the point is commercial real estate is
one of those like some commercial could
be f fantastic I really love the idea of
multif Family Residence I think that is
a very good thing overall um they're
having their own problems though but
when we're talking about office in a
world in which we have this hybrid
office model now becoming kind of the
norm um you know full-time from home for
a lot of companies just not going to
work uh but there is you know a lot of
hybrid talk especially in the financial
sector at the same time retail there's
just way too much retail particularly in
the United States you just you can't
fill that in and I get the thing all the
time yeah but we just put you know
convert that to residential it doesn't
work in the vast majority of cases I've
covered the reasons why before now we
move into the residential I wanted to
show you this 12month inventory shift
shift in active listings between
February 2023 and February 2024 the
worst circumstance uh being for Florida
here plus 46 6% that's a huge concern
that's a huge concern we'll see though
because when you when you look at this
yeah year over-year can kind of skew
things sometimes Mississippi Louisiana
it looks like uh concentrated in these
areas here where perhaps there was a lot
of movement happening in coming in at
this point there's also the concern in
any place when you build too much
because hey there's a lot of demand but
by the time you know two years three
years rolls around and you start to
develop all these
properties you know depending on if
they're small or if large properties you
get those online what is the demand at
that point I know so many cases where
they bought the land they're ready to
dig all of a sudden whoa everything just
stops grinds to a halt and then that
just an empty lot for the longest time
it's because things changed Florida
house prices fall as homeowners
desperately tried to sell that's a
little bit skewed as well you got to
look at particular areas but when we see
prices coming up these crazy Peaks um
you know you have to expect that UK
property asking prices rise at the
fastest Pace in 10 months so this is
crazy to say the least when we look at
it in Australia in UK in Canada New
Zealand generally the prices have been
very very strong especially when you
spread that out and look at over you
know a 5year period let's say it's been
ridiculous in fact as housing cost
Skyrocket s Dona will allow workers to
live in their cars that's right I have a
solution for you are prices too high
well I've got a mobile uh place for you
to live it's it's got got four rubber
tires there and uh you know you're
you're all good just live in your car
then you can move from place to place
it's fantastic that's their solution I
mean it's crazy these people are out of
their minds look at the conditions that
are worsening and it and if we're not
going to focus is on the one group you
know what this is I'm going to say this
right now I wasn't going to say
it there are people out there that will
say End the Fed End the Fed and they
point the finger at the government trust
me I'll point the finger at the
government absolutely but I'll also be
pointing the finger at the number one
perpetrator of the inflationary crimes
the Federal Reserve oh yeah and the fed
I'm sure you really care about the fed
you love the fed you love the FED
because it pushes asset prices up you
don't care about other people and the
fact that they suffer every time they
print you got assets you'll make more
assets because of you
know the way that your business
runs I've got more to
say in time Westbrook Partners defaults
on loan tied to San Francisco for
Seasons just wanted to clarify that this
is affecting everybody okay Chinese
investors offloaded $31 billion of us
commercial real estate over the last
five years that's two reasons Capital
controls and lending caps um Chinese
investors you know they're restricted on
how much money that they can pull out
and certainly that has uh been the issue
here there's other reasons for it as
well but there's $30 billion right there
um a lot of people don't want the
outside investment but trust me a lot of
money is there like the real estate
industry would in fact collapse entirely
if all outside investors were to simply
pull out uh pulling out sometimes not
the best idea all right and then we have
this the 6% Commission on buying or
selling and by the way foreign
investment I think it needs we can have
a debate about this but there are
certain ones that should be just a no no
okay if it's near like a military asset
it there's no way that that should ever
be allowed like it's just obvious um you
know having critical infrastructure no
but like a house in the middle of the
suburbs you know not so much a big deal
you know we can look at that anyway but
that's a whole different story I think I
think we should look at the Nuance there
before we just have a blanket statement
because understanding how a country is
built it's a lot there's a lot of
foreign investment in every country all
right and what what happens as soon as a
country is is if it's a closed country
and it suddenly opens up you just have
massive development that happens in the
country and usually if what we've seen
from communist countries is that you
know you look 10 years 20 years down the
road they're better off after they open
up with that outside investment the 6%
Commission on buying and selling a home
is gone after retail association agrees
to the seismic settlement this is
probably beneficial for everybody except
for real estate agents of course um the
you know when prices were super low
maybe it's okay but as the price moves
up like you're selling a home that's $2
million it might be a shoe box in
Toronto but that real estate agent is
making big money now I I've got a lot of
friends that are real estate agents and
um you know I see what's happening
here so I don't wish people can make
less money that's for sure uh but we
have to be creative at this time for all
different reasons if you want to know
how to be creative if you want to get
your all your stuff sorted out number
one hit that Thumbs Up Button because
this Channel's got that for you you got
to join the finance Friday Crew Please
check this out Finance Friday crew is
literally way ahead of everybody because
quite frankly two hours every single
Friday dialing into all this information
of course they're going to be ahead that
link is in the description I also talk
about diversification like building an
online business which is way if you're
trying to make money you can't if you're
going to make 7% to 10% a year and
you're lucky to do so year over year
over year over year you're never going
to be able to Escape The Inferno of
inflation and that's why I talk about on
the Sunday sessions building an online
business and then we go expand from
there that's just the tip of the iceberg
baby I want to see you here tomorrow
don't forget to come back all right take
care